hi this is pressed hell Walker in this
video I'm going to teach you a fun way
to multiply numbers called the slide
method of multiplication let's say you
want to multiply three thousand and
twelve by 1021 let's do this problem
with the slide method of multiplication
the first step is to reverse the digits
of one of the number so we're going to
take the number three thousand and
twelve and reverse the digits so we
write down a two then a one zero and
finally a three the next step is to take
the other number and we're simply going
to copy down the digits when you
actually do this in practice you're
going to write it on another piece of
paper for this video we'll just put it
off to the left so we put 1021 off to
the left and now comes the fun part
where we're going to slide the number
across so we're going to take 1021 and
we're going to slide it so that the
first digit lines up and now what we're
going to do is we're going to multiply
vertically and add so right now we only
have two numbers which is 2 times 1 and
that's going to give us our first digit
of the answer which is 2 we slide it
across and now with the digits that are
vertically lined we multiply 2 times 2
which is 4 and 1 times 1 which is 1
so adding up 4 and 1 gets us the net
next digit which is 5 we slide one more
time and now we multiply and add so 2
times 0 is 0 1 times 2 is 2 and 0 times
1 is 0 so in this step of the sliding we
only have 2 we continue to slide so we
have 2 times 1 is 2 1 times 0 is 0 0
times 2 is also 0 and 3 times 1 is
three so we add two and three to get
five we continue sliding we have 1 times
1 is 1 0 times 0 is 0
and 3 times 2 is 6 so we add 1 & 6 to
get a 7 sliding once more we have 0
times 1 is 0
and 3 times 0 is also 0 so that gets us
a 0 and now finally we have 3 times 1 is
3 we put in some commas and that's our
answer
three thousand and twelve times 1021 is
three million 75252 I hope you liked
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can also catch me on my blog
mine your decisions on Twitter at brush
teleworker or you can get my ebooks at
Amazon and a video I think you'll like
and a book is multiply numbers by
drawing lines so check it out